README.md, before:

# Helpdesk Ticketing System 

A real-world **Helpdesk Ticketing System** built with **C#** and **.NET 8 Web API**.  
This project is designed for learning and portfolio purposes, showcasing how to build a backend system that could be used in IT support environments.

---

##  Features (so far)
- ASP.NET Core Web API setup
- Ticket model with properties (Id, Title, Description, Status, CreatedAt)
- REST endpoints for tickets (GET, POST)
- Swagger UI for API testing

---

##  Tech Stack
- **Language**: C#  
- **Framework**: .NET 8 (ASP.NET Core Web API)  
- **Database**: SQLite (via Entity Framework Core) *(coming soon)*  
- **Tools**: Swagger, Git, GitHub

---

##  Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
- Git

### Run the project
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YourUsername/helpdesk-system.git
cd helpdesk-system
```

# Run the API
```bash
dotnet run
```


##  Project Management
We track progress using GitHub Projects:  
 [View Project Board](https://github.com/users/LeonNgwala/projects/2)


### Author

**Lutho Ngwala**
A junior software developer passionate about backend systems, databases, and solving real-world problems.

Commit message:

Updated README with CRUD features

README.md, after:

# Helpdesk Ticketing System 

A real-world **Helpdesk Ticketing System** built with **C#** and **.NET 8 Web API**.  
This project is designed for learning and portfolio purposes, showcasing how to build a backend system that could be used in IT support environments.

---

##  Features (so far)
- ASP.NET Core Web API setup
- Ticket model with properties (Id, Title, Description, Status, CreatedAt)
- SQLite database with EF Core
- REST endpoints for tickets:
  - [x] GET all tickets
  - [x] GET ticket by Id
  - [x] POST create ticket
  - [x] PUT update ticket
  - [x] DELETE remove ticket
- Swagger UI for API testing

---

##  Tech Stack
- **Language**: C#  
- **Framework**: .NET 8 (ASP.NET Core Web API)  
- **Database**: SQLite (via Entity Framework Core) *(coming soon)*  
- **Tools**: Swagger, Git, GitHub

---

##  Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
- Git

### Run the project
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YourUsername/helpdesk-system.git
cd helpdesk-system
```

# Run the API
```bash
dotnet run
```


##  Project Management
We track progress using GitHub Projects:  
 [View Project Board](https://github.com/users/LeonNgwala/projects/2)


### Author

**Lutho Ngwala**
A junior software developer passionate about backend systems, databases, and solving real-world problems.
